# Priority class

k8s run diff app as pod with diff priority.
eg.
- kube control component run as pod in cluster
- priority db
- priority critical app (high priority)
- priority background job (lower priority)


Priority class: define the priority for diff workload.

high priority > low priority

If higer priority pod cannot be schedule -> the schudler will termninate the lower priority workload to make higer priority can place.

Prioirty class is non-namespace obj (can not specifc namespace).
- it will apply on every pod in every namespace.


### Define priority
is a range of numbers -2B to 1B to app / workload that are deploy on cluster.
- the large number = high priority

befault the priority class value is 0


*the higest priority is 2B for critical app of k8s eg. system-cluister-critical, system-node-critical.


### Cli
- List existing priority class
```
$ kubectl get priorityclass
```

To compare priority classes on each pod
```
$ kubectl get pods -o custom-columns="NAME:.metadata.name,PRIORITY:.spec.priorityClassName"
```



### Create new priority class
```
apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: high-priority
value: 1000_000_000
description: "Priority class for mission critical app"
```

option
- globalDefault: true -> make default if not set.
- preemptionPolicy: PreemptLowerPriority -> action behavior of preemption when new pod come in.


### Add sign to pod
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:

spec:
  containers:
    - name:
      image
  priorityClassName: high-priority
```

### Effect of pod priority
eg.

workload:
- job -> set priorityclass_value = 5
- critical_app -> set priorityclass_value = 7
- high_priority_job ->  set priorityclass_value = 6

1. kube-scheulder will place the higer priority(critical_app) on node 1st.
2. If resource still available, schulder will place the job on node after that.
3. If high priority job come in -> schulder will evict/kill the job workload and place high priority job