# How storage work in containers

2 concepts

1. Storage driver

2. Volume driver


# Storage driver and file systems
Where and how docker store data, how it manage file system of containers.

### File system

folder of docker 
```
/var/lib/docker
```

sub-folder eg. aufs, containres, images, volumes

this is where docker store all data by default.

### Docker Layer architecture
- when docker build images, them will in a layer architecture

- each line of instruction of dockerfile -> create a new layer

```
FROM Ubuntu
RUN apt update && apt install python
RUN pip install flaks flaks-mysql
COPY ./opt/source-code
ENTRYPOINT FLASKAPP=/out/source-code/app.py flask run
```

```
$ docker build Dockerfile -t yoyo_app
```
(image layer) = Read only(cant modify)
- 1st layer: is Ubuntu ditro
- 2nd layer: is apt package
- 3rd layer: is pip package
- 4th layer: Source Code
- 5th layer: Update entrypoint

each layer has size 


Advantage of layer -> docker can use privous layer from **cache** and quick rebuild

(Container layer): Read Write
when run image -> create new layer: 6th container layer
```
$ docker run yoyo_app
```


# Persist data in container
### volumes

eg. Case database + preserve data that created by container -> add persistant volume to container.

1. create volumes
```
$ docker volume create data_volume
```

2. when run docker run + volume -> It will mount this volume inside the docker container write layer
```
$ docekr run -v data_volume:/var/lib/mysql mysql
```

Even if the container is destroyed, the data is still available.


***
In the case we need to store database_data on the volume and not in the default /var/lib/docker/volume folder.

we case use
```
$ docker run -v /data/mysql:/var/lib/mysql mysql
```

its mean:
1. we create folder /data/mysql
2. we create a container (has folder /var/lib/mysql)
3. Mounth the folder to container

This step is call **"Bind mounting"**


2 type of mount
- 1. Volume mount -> mount a volume from the volume_directory.
- 2. Bind mount -> mount a directory from any location.


new style syntax (no use -v)
```
$ docker run \
  --mount type=bind,source=/data/mysql,target=/var/lib/mysql mysql
```


# Docker storage driver
- AUFS
- ZFS
- BTRFS
- Device mapper
- Overlay
- Overlay2